The scripture reading for Christmas Eve.
comes from the book of Isaiah
Chapter nine.
Beginning to read verse 1
nevertheless
There will be no more gloom for those who are in distress.
In the past,
He humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali.
But in the future
He will honour Gailea the nations.
By the way of the sea beyond the Jordan
The people walk in darkness
Have seen a great light
On those living in the land of deep darkness, a light has dawned.
You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy.
They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest
As warriors rejoice when dividing the plunder
For as in the day of Midian's defeat,
You have shattered the yoke that burdens them.
The bar across their shoulders
The rod of their oppressor
Every warrior's boot used in battle
And every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning.
Will be fuel for fire.
For unto us a child is born.
To us a son is given.
And the government will be on his shoulders.
And he will be called wonderful counselor mighty god
Everlasting Father.
Prince of peace.
Of the greatness of his government and peace there will be no end
He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom.
Establishing it
And upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever.
The zeal of the lord almighty
Will accomplish this.
This is the word of the Lord.
Please be seated.
What do you look forward to most at Christmas?
Food!
My people.
What else? What else? What do you look forward to most?
Christmas pudding. Very, very, very
Correct. Caroling. Movies.
My son, I got three boys, my oldest is 13.
My 13 year old son.
He looks forward to one thing.
most of all when it comes to Christmas.
It's not the food.
It's not the songs. It's not the family time. It's not the lights.
Here's what he loves most about Christmas. He loves waiting.
What? I know.
Waiting and then the surprise.
The other day two days ago he came to my wife and i and he
I had his head down and he looked at us he said
I have horrible news.
Oh no!
School just ended? What happened?
And he said this:
I know what one of my presence is.
What happened?
He said this,
I couldn't help myself.
I walked over to the tree.
And picked it up.
And held it.
And knew what it was.
And he was right!
You know, it's interesting on Christmas Eve with a text like this,
One of the fascinating challenges for each and every one of us, no matter whether you're new to church, is the first time in your life or first time in a year or first time in a week.
Eek.
One of the challenges is we hear a verse like this.
And our brains can sort of turn off and all the anticipation, all the surprise, all of the good news can go away.
But what's fascinating here is this ancient text,
It's going to drive us to this point where it says that you and I were longing for
A reality
That we don't possess.
That there's some sense and there's some reason why we spend a trillion dollars in north america around this this time of year
Why we buy dozens of Christmas presents or maybe just a few if you were disciplined.
But with that we have this longing.
For something remarkable.
And yet we can turn
These tax
Into sentimentalism.
And to just, hey, just be a good person and have a nice year.
But the scandal of the Bible, the scandal of this text, it says this, that what you are longing for, what I am longing for,
The deepest longings of our heart
Come to us.
in the form of a little child.
And this was scandalous to the ancient world.
And so tonight I've got 12 minutes.
That's how I got. You're welcome.
Enough time to bake cookies or change your life.
So we're going to look at one verse we're going to dial in on one verse
Here's the verse about all of our longing. The reason why we observe this says this for us to
To us, a child is born.
To us the son is given
A couple of thoughts on this. One is this ancient literature written to a nation called Israel. And Israel at the time was having all kinds of political challenges.
Yes.
There was division, there was a sense of economic despair and crunch and challenge. There was a superpower that was their neighbor that controlled everything.
And the people had this sense of wondering, what is life really all about?
Maybe we do today.
In that context, here's what...
God in heaven above said,
This, a child is born.
To you, a son's going to be given
A couple of thoughts on this. Why is this so profound?
Well, here's the fascinating part.
If you're going to understand the very meaning of Christmas,
You have to understand this at its very essence
It is a gift.
And now for some of you go
A gift, way to go, real original at Christmas.
But here's what I need you to see.
See, Christianity stands in a different way
than every other religious system in the world. See, every other religious system will tell you, here's what you need to be a good person.
Here's why you need to accrue good karma. Here's the way to get to heaven.
I'm going to tell you a way.
To earn some wages even you know
Everyday Calgarians who've got no religious affiliation at all. Here's what they say at Christmas time Christmas is about being a really good person
If you live a good life, everything will work out.
But
What the Bible says is this, is that actually that won't work out.
That if you want to actually have a living connection with the creator
It can come only through a gift.
And this is tremendously good news because
A gift is unearned, it's free.
So for some of us,
We're going to head back to work. Some of you, you might even work tomorrow.
May God have mercy on your soul.
So I'm going to say it'll be a week from now. So I'm going to say you've got two weeks off at Christmas time,
Somebody nodded they're like I'm one of them
And you're gonna go to work.
And you're going to earn money.
And then you're going to pay visa.
And they'll be happy.
It's Christmas for us now, for them in two weeks.
But you got to go you got to go earn earn earn earn earn and
Here's the scandalous part. If at the end of your earning period, your boss came up to you and just said, "Hey, here's your paycheck."
But I want you to know that this one is a gift.
You'd look at him and go, No, it's not.
I earned this
See, Christmas is the stunning declaration that you cannot earn your way into right standing with God. You can't reconnect yourself to God. You can't earn good karma. You can't buy
And by your way to heaven,
through good deeds. Those are just wages.
That Christmas
It's a gift.
Then God goes, I actually have a sense of
And a longing and desire for a relationship with you that has to come up.
As a gift you cannot earn the
What do you do when you get a gift?
Anybody out there not good at receiving gifts?
I'll let some of you raise your hands, me too.
I get a gift and it makes me feel uncomfortable.
So it's like, you'd rather give one than get one.
You ever received a gift that was just stunningly large?
Like we went, that was like,
That was shocking.
Some of you kids, you're hoping for that tomorrow.
If you ever get a gift...
That just feels above and beyond.
It actually does something. It makes you feel uncomfortable.
See, and this is what Christmas is supposed to do. It's supposed to be a gift so large, so shocking, that you go, "I'm uncomfortable."
And then actually, if you get Christmas right, it'll actually humble you because you go, "If there is a God out there, he loves me so much that he would give his most treasured possession, he would give me
me his very own.
Sun
See, a great gift humbles you.
And the gift of christmas is this that god has come
For you and he's given you his son
Have you received that?
A couple other thoughts and we'll wrap up. There's a few names used here.
Have wonderful counselor. This child will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace.
Let's talk about mighty god and everlasting father
It's fascinating names given to this promised child.
What is this mighty God?
Why is that important? Well, here's the claim of Christmas.
That God hasn't abandoned us.
That is coming.
And he's coming because it's god in that little manger in that food trough he can actually change reality he can change your life he can bring light into this
Into the darkness.
But then it says this, everlasting father.
Why is this child called a father? It's a child.
Well, because in some way,
The coming of Jesus was this. It was actually
The beginning of a brand new
Family.
The child is called an everlasting father because he's the foundation of a brand new family. Here's the message of Christmas that actually
Today, if you stand estranged from God,
I don't know him. I don't even know if he'
That at Christmas
Jesus Christ came to make you a part of the family of God.
Where you could receive all of the love, all of the blessing, all of the joy, and hear me, all of the security.
of being a part of God's family.
Never to be lost again.
You received that
It's a gift.
Final thought.
There's this title here.
Prince of Peace.
Now some of you, I know what some of you are thinking, some of you are thinking, there's this scandalous claim here in this text that of the increase of this government, of the Prince of Peace, there's
There will be no end.
Answer me this: why is there still war?
Why is there still
2000 years
A fracture.
If Jesus is come and he is who he says he is and he's the Prince of Peace, how can that be true?
There are three answers. One is this.
The type of peace that Jesus came to bring was peace between you and God.
Peace between you and God. One of the central claims of the Bible is this.
That every single one of us
By nature and by choice, we were enemies of God, and yet,
While we were his enemies, Jesus Christ gave his life for you.
And for me.
So you get in peace with God.
It's a gift to offer to you tonight.
Number two though
If that message goes deeply deep into your heart and you go
God has seen all of me.
The absolute worst, the absolute best. And he said, "In spite of you,
In spite of all that's broken.
I love you.
I want you as part of my family.
Here's my son.
To the extent that that moves from your head into your heart and you go, "Everything wrong I've ever done, I've been released from."
To the extent that it goes deep from your head into your heart, you'll actually have resources to do that with people around you, and you'll begin to have peace with other people.
Thirdly and finally,
One of the...
The peculiar realities of life
Is we're more aware of what's broken than ever.
But did you know that on the planet Earth right now there's more peace than there ever has been?
There's less war.
And some people will say it's because we've actually had a model
Of a man named Jesus Christ
And that the Christian faith, at the very heart of the Christian faith, is
This.
God dying for his enemies.
See if you can die for your enemies
You can live in harmony with them.
In a handful of seconds we're going to sing Silent Night.
You know the story of Silent Night?
It's kind of amazing. It's written in the 1800s, about 1818
by an Austrian priest.
Have you wrote it right after the end?
of the Napoleonic Wars that have ravaged Europe for years.
Decimated it.
And he was walking home one night
after church.
And he looked out.
And he saw all this peace and he felt the peace that had come to Europe.
And he wrote that classic song.
One of the most translated songs in human history.
What's fascinating is this fast forward 100 years
It's Christmas Day.
World War I.
And a bunch of German soldiers are in trenches and they start sitting on Christmas Day silent night
Holy night
All is calm, all is bright.
Round yon virgin, mother and child, holy infant so tender and mild.
And the British forces and the French forces heard it as well and they started singing.
And then in the middle of a war peace broke out.
And they climbed out of their trenches and they played a game of soccer.
Should have been hockey.
And for one day in the midst of all of the chaos and darkness of the world, light struck.
And there was peace.
See Jesus has power to make peace with God.
and peace with one another. And one day there will be total peace on earth because of this little baby whose name is Jesus. Have you received him?
Let's pray.
If you're here and you've never received Jesus, today's an amazing day. Prayer is simply this. It's speaking to God and listening for his voice.
So that would be a prayer for you to say, Jesus, I receive you.
For some of us, it's a great night to receive him once again.
For some of us, it's...
It's time to just sit with him.
This would be a simple prayer. I'd invite you to pray alongside of it.
It'd be very simple.
You can pray in your head and your heart. Here's the
Jesus, i receive you.
I receive your peace
Thank you for coming for me.
God, I receive your gift.
Please fill me with your joy.
I want peace with you.
In Jesus' beautiful name we pray.
Amen.